let's bring you some more now on those
comments made by the US president about
weapon shipments uh to Israel uh
bringing in Heidi Joe castran our
correspondent in Washington DC and Heidi
uh obviously uh significant comments
from the US president he's under a great
deal of pressure isn't he from outside
of the US and from within
it absolutely this this marks a
significant shift
in the Biden Administration and the US
foreign policy toward Israel in that
Biden has just told CNN uh that the the
continuation of us Aid of uh artillery
shells bombs for fighter jets and other
offensive weapons is contingent on
whether Israel invades the city of Rafa
he said that if that goes forth the US
will stop supplying those things to
Israel that is a a significant turn of
events and like you said so yes Biden
has been under significant uh pressure
knowing uh just how many civilians are
Sheltering in Rafa but we also saw this
sort of being paved by cabinet members
Lloyd Austin the Austin the uh us
defense secretary was on Capitol Hill
today telling us the Senate
appropriation committee uh that the US
was indeed pausing at least one shipment
of Munitions that happened last week uh
he said that there had not been a final
determination on whether that pause
would be lifted but he also said that
other future Munitions deliveries were
being considered for perhaps slow
walking so these are definitely hurdles
that the US Administration is putting in
the way between the US weapons getting
to Israel and now those words from
President Biden himself saying that if
Israel again invades the city of Rafa
that the US will stop supplying it with
those offensive weapons and Heidi it's
interesting that you know he should sit
down with a major US broadcaster to be
so clear about what he's wants to say uh
about Israel let me just give one of the
quotes you know he says bombs that the
United States has supplied to Israel and
now paused have been used to kill
civilians it's such that is such a huge
statement to make I mean we know that
he's been against an incursion into Rafa
we've heard that from blink we've now
heard it again from the Secretary of
Defense but to say that the bombs that
the US are supplying have been used
against civilians is fuel to the fire of
Civil Society globally who have all been
very critical of the American support
for
Israel absolutely and that exact turn of
phrase that it's us made bombs that are
dropping on civilians in Rafa those are
the chant that we've been hearing at
these protests that are on us college
campuses and that have erupted in major
US cities even prior to these campus
protests so yes you know for for all
until now Biden has been peppered with
questions from reporters from protesters
about when that would ever change and he
always sort of dodged those questions he
always professed this Ironclad alliance
between the US and Israel which by the
way was again affirmed today by the US
defense secretary the alliance itself is
not in question but